# AbstractOfmyThesis

The aeroengine is the heart of aviation weapons and equipment to ensure national security and highlight the status of a powerful country. It is an important symbol to measure a country's comprehensive science and technology level, basic strength of science and technology industry and comprehensive national strength. As the pearl in the crown of modern industry, the aeroengine is also one of the most complex engineering systems in the world today. Its flow instability has always been a key factor restricting its performance and efficiency. In the past 75 years, a lot of research has been carried out from three different perspectives: theory, numerical model and experiment. However, especially for high-speed aeroengine compressors, there are still many difficulties, including correct physical modeling, reasonable evaluation of system stability, more refined simulation of tip leakage vortex structure, turbulence and sound propagation, etc.

    In order to explore the internal mechanism of compressor flow instability, based on the acoustic mode theory of swirling duct, the correlation between swirling and vortex-acoustic-unsteady modes is summarized, mainly including swirling and pressure dominated acoustic modes, pure convection modes dominated by vorticity, near-convection modes dominated by vorticity generated by wall boundary or non-uniform entropy, and the relationship between pressure disturbance and flow amplified unsteady modes. Based on this model, not only the cyclostationary characteristic of pressure fluctuation signal under flow instability is proved, but also the relationship between rotational instability and pipe acoustic mode is established. The introduction of this model provides a new research idea for understanding the generation mechanism of rotational instability, that is, under the effect of swirling flow, circumferential Doppler effect will be generated, and the flow channel will match the specific radial acoustic mode, so that the circumferential mode wave energy is amplified.


    For the problem of transonic flow instability, the shock buffet problem is taken as the entry point, combined with DLR transonic cascade PIV test and LES simulation, in order to explain the strong vortex sound shock interaction of flow instability. Theoretically, starting from the Bolzmann equation, the Euler and NS equations in curvilinear coordinate system are completely derived, and the NS equations are curvilinear coordinate and linearized. The characteristic boundary conditions and the solution idea of Riemann problem are analyzed. The non-reflective boundary conditions and AUSM shock wave capture algorithm are implanted into Openfoam and the corresponding algorithm is verified. Combining dynamic KEqn LES, multi time step Runge Kutta method, subdomain boundary flux format AUSM+up with van Leer or minmod flux limiter, and non reflective boundary conditions, an integrated vortex acoustic shock simulation method is established. The shock buffet phenomenon of the transonic compressor cascade is reproduced for the first time, and the shock buffet frequency is completely consistent with the experimental results. More comprehensively explain the generation mechanism of the shock wave, that is, the generation of the shock wave is dominated by the pressure wave, separated vortex and compression wave in the upstream and downstream near the shock wave root, and does not involve the Kutta wave dominated by the classical Lee model.

    In order to establish the key index of instability early warning, the leakage vortex of compressor was tested and simulated. Through the oblique array test, the moving track of the leakage vortex was observed. Using the feature that the track gradually moves towards the leading edge of the blade tip, the normal, slight instability, moderate instability and severe instability of the compressor can be effectively distinguished. In order to further study this feature, with the full channel URANS simulation model, the cyclic oscillation process of the leakage vortex from vortex formation, vortex development to vortex breaking is more comprehensively revealed, and it is pointed out that the oscillating vortex core and the sensor $R_1$ is closest in the axial position. The frequency spectrum of the signal at this position is analyzed, and a multi spike broadband in the order range of 8-24 is observed, which is defined as the RI band. It is found that the RI band is closely related to instability. Therefore, the energy information carried by the frequency band is used to study the method of instability early warning. Pass Band Energy $E_{RI}$, select RI band range, sensor location, sampling rate, and finally establish a simple and sensitive index $I_{RI}$ for instability warning. This index increases and decreases monotonously with instability. When it is applied to the instability monitoring of compressor under all working conditions, it can give an early warning for slight instability of compressor, give an alarm for moderate instability 15 s in advance, and give a danger warning for severe instability 5 s in advance. Therefore, sufficient response time is reserved for instability control. At the same time, the index is attached with equivalent opening or flow parameters, which can be verified with the opening or flow value of the actual instrument, thus providing a quantitative discrimination method for judging whether the stall or instability caused by the magnetic valve opening or flow reduction.
